title: ""
page_description: ""
page_image: ""
date: 2012-03-04
template: "project.html"
path: "projects/3"
project: {
  "geometry": null,
  "type": "Feature",
  "properties": {
    "color": "#055DD0",
    "link": "/projects/3",
    "name": "Water Reporter",
    "description": "",
    "timeline": "2013-2018",
  }
}

How I designed a collaboration platform for nonprofits.

- Reduce Response Time
- Strengthen Collaboration
- Increase Visibility

## Background/Summary
The Chesapeake Commons and its partners needed to collect data from volunteers without using spreadsheets and web forms.

## Role
I designed processes, an iOS app, an Android app, two web apps, and API.

## Leadership
I negotiated the project contracts and managed the project. I also managed a graphic designer and a software engineer responsible for supporting graphics and Android development.

## Project Team
I worked closely with the Chesapeake Commons' Executive Director and their 17 partner organizations to gain domain knowledge specific to the project. 

## Deliverables
- Information Architecture
- Design Thinking Workshops
- Usability Testing
- Visual Design for Web and Mobile
- System Architecture

## Outcomes
Reduce the response time from months to weeks by designing processes that lean on location technology.
Strengthen collaboration between organizations and their volunteers by encouraging conversation. 
Increase the visibility of volunteer work by enabling users to share and celebrate success stories.

## Process
I started by learning who the volunteers were and how they interacted with organizations. I created several paper prototypes and tested them with users to see how assumptions matched up to user behavior. After weeding out potential traps, I created an interactive iOS prototype, testing it with 20 volunteers from 17 different organizations.

I wrote a series of short articles describing how my process changed as the project grew. 

## Timeline
I started working with the Chesapeake Commons in 2013. I created the technical infrastructure to assist them in raising multiple rounds of funding from 2014-2017. I helped them successfully transition the entire platform into their hands in 2018 and am happy to say that they just released a new version on their own in 2020.